---
layout: post
title:  "Journey of Kubernetes, Helm and Jenkins"
date:   2018-08-09
categories: [Wiki, Meetup]
description: ""
thumbnail: "img/placeholder.jpg"
disable_comments: true
authorbox: true
toc: true
mathjax: true
tags: [Kubernetes, Helm, Jenkins]
published: true
---

# Overview

	In this session, we will go through the basics of Kubernetes and Helm. We would be discussing the complexities of writing and managing Kubernetes Yaml's and how we can overcome by Helm Charts. We would demonstrate, what it takes to launch a deployment using Helm Charts vs writing Kuberntes.  Next, a simple workflow demonstration of  CICD involving Helm, Git, and Jenkins. For the hands-on workshop, We will provide pre-built Kubenrates and Helm machines for attendees to try deployment using Kubenebtes and Helm

## Goal

- Get Hands on Kubernetes, Helm and Jenkins

## Using Kubectl Commands

Now lets create a kubernetes namespace. Note: Replace `{{ username }}` with actual username provided to you to login to the system 

    kubectl create namespace {{ username }}
    Example: kubectl create namespace login1

Let's clone `helm-meetup` repo from github
	
	git clone https://github.com/kvenkata986/helm-meetup.git

Now lets navigate to `helm-meetup/kubectl` directory and list the files in the directory
  
    cd helm-meetup/kubectl
    ls -l

Now lets create `Deployment`, `Service` and `Ingress` using `kubectl` commands.

    kubectl create -f deployment.yaml --namespace {{ username}}
    kubectl create -f service.yaml --namespace {{ username}}
    kubectl create -f ingress.yaml --namespace {{ username}}

Now lets verify if our `Deployment`, `Service` and `Ingress` are actually created. 

    kubectl get deployments --namespace {{ username}}
    kubectl get service --namespace  {{ username}}
    kubectl get ingress --namespace {{ username}} 

`Note:` After creating an ingress in Google cloud, it will take approximately 25min to get a Public IP

Now lets delete our `Deployment`, `Service` and `Ingress`. 

    kubectl delete ingress nginx-ingress --namespace {{ username}}
    kubectl delete service nginx-service --namespace {{ username}}
    kubectl delete deployment nginx-deployment --namespace {{ username}}
    
## Using helm Commands    

Now lets navigate to `helm` directory and list the files in the directory

    cd ../helm
    ls -l

Now lets see if any helm charts are installed in your namespace. 
 
    helm list --namespace {{ username }}

Now lets install helm-nginx chart. 
    
    helm install . ---namespace {{ username }}

Now lets verify if helm chart was successfully installed in your namespace. 

    helm list --namespace {{ username }}

Now lets update some values in helm charts

    helm upgrade -scale
 
## Conclusion

- Coming Soon




